# Welcome

We propose to develop a pilot program at the Adler Planetarium called ‘Touch the Universe’. Our project will utilize 3D printed astrophysical objects in combination with visualizations to provide museum guests with a new way of exploring space and science concepts. It will also benefit our guests with visual impairment and those that are primarily tactile learners, providing a pathway for deeper understanding of astrophysical concepts that are often only presented visually within the planetarium experience.  

This programming will be delivered weekly within Adler Planetarium’s Space Visualization Lab (SVL), a unique space where local astronomers and astrophysicists present their latest discoveries with breathtaking images, innovative data visualizations, and 3D video displays. Guests will be invited to touch a vast array of 3D printed items such as comets, nebulas, telescope replicas, representations of gravitational waves, and much more. While these objects are being investigated by the audience, SVL presenters will deliver a narrative about each item, augmented by associated telescope images, simulation visualizations, and 3D movies.  

As we establish our ‘Touch the Universe’ program, we will draw upon online resources, our many scientific collaborators both locally and around the world, and leverage Adler Planetarium’s reputation as a leader in astrophysical visualization and the use of innovative technologies within a museum environment. The 3D printable models and accompanying visualizations will either be developed in house, make use of NASA resources, or incorporate Universe of Learning source materials. To facilitate the duplication of our program by other organizations, we will make all of our materials available online via GitHub, including presentation scripts and information cards. This will ensure that those without an astronomy background can deliver the ‘Touch the Universe’ program to audiences of all ages and backgrounds at their home institutions.       

