# Solar Magnetic Fields - The Solar Cycle, Corona, and Wind

Our Sun is a magnetic star. The Sun generates all of its magnetic field deep in its interior through motion of the hot, conductive gas of which it is made. This internal magnetic field then rises through the Sun's gaseous interior. Eventually bundles of magnetic field intersect with the Sun's surface where the intense concentrations of magnetism form dark regions called sunspots. These magnetic bundles may continue to rise and are then visible as giant arches of magnetism attached to the Sun's surface. These are referred to as coronal loops. Material from the Sun's upper atmosphere is attracted to these loops of magnetism, mapping out magnetic arches that often extend many times the Sun's radius above its surface.

The process that generates the Sun's magnetism is called a dynamo. Dynamos convert mechanical energy (i.e. rotation and motion of the Sun's hot gas) into magnetic energy. The Earth's magnetic field is also generated by a dynamo in its liquid metal core. Much like the Earth's magnetic field, the Sun's global (i.e. overall) magnetic field is at times similar to that of a bar magnet. We refer to this as a dipolar magnetic field, having a North and South magnetic pole at the North and South geographical poles. Approximately every 11 years, the Sun flips the orientation of its magnetic poles. 

The Sun's 11 year cycle of magnetism, referred to as the solar cycle, is also tracked by the number of sunspots that appear on the Sun's surface.The time period corresponding to the greatest number of sunspots is called solar maximum. Solar minimum occurs during times of little to no sunspots. During the solar cycle, the shape of the global magnetic fields in the Sun's outermost atmosphere, called the corona, also changes. The corona is very thin and faint. It can only be viewed during total solar eclipses or with special telescopes called coronagraphs, which block the light coming from the Sun's central disk. Hot gas from the Sun's outer atmosphere is attracted to the magnetic fields extended above the Sun's surface, tracing out the Sun's large-scale magnetic field. 

During solar minimum, the shape of the corona is quite simple. It has 'closed' magnetic loops mostly confined to the Sun's low latitudes, around the equator. At the poles are so-called 'open' magnetic fields, where the magnetic field lines are attached to the Sun's surface and extend outward and away from the Sun. Along these open magnetic field lines, material from the Sun flows outward at speeds of up to 1.5 million miles per hour. This stream of material is called the solar wind. There is also a 'slower' solar wind of up to 900,000 miles per hour in the lower latitude region of closed magnetic fields. These regions of open magnetic fields are often referred to as coronal holes because they are not visible in solar observations, as these regions are less dense compared to the material trapped along the closed magnetic loops. 

A represenation of a simple magnetic field structure during solar minimum is depicted by the 'slow rotator' 3D printed magnetic field model.       


# Further Reading


# What's in this repository?

Visualization of the predicted solar corona during the August 21, 2017 total solar eclipse: tricol_Full_log10qavg_101_rot.mov <br/>
CREDIT: Predicitive Science Inc - [http://www.predsci.com/corona/aug2017eclipse/home.php](http://www.predsci.com/corona/aug2017eclipse/home.php)
